#New project Installation
You're just a few steps away from having a full ready-to-use project directory. The installation process consists of:

1. Creating a new repository,
1. Installing the *Bower components*,
3. Installing *Brunch*,
4. Setting up your server.

##Create a new repository
1. Go on [http://gitlab.fullsix.com](http://gitlab.fullsix.com) and create a **new Git repository**.
2. **Clone** the new repository on the local working space.
3. Create a new `.gitignore` file to manage default behaviour. You should take [.gitignore.txt](.gitignore.txt) as a starting point.

##Install Bower components
###Install Bower
If **Bower** is not yet installed on your system, install it with the command line:
```
npm install bower -g
```

###Install Bower components
The minimum requirements here are jQuery and inuit.css, they are listed in the `bower.json`file. To install them, go to the root of the project with the command line and type:
```
bower install
```

If you need other bower components, first, search for the right name of the component you need then install it:
```bash
bower search moderni						// will find *Modernizr* packages for example
bower install [component-name] --save-dev	// will install the desired package
bower init									// will update the bower.json file with your additional components (useful for the next installation).
```

**Warning**  
A check is needed into the inuit.css component: It appears that to date, a missing property in the .bower.json causes problems in Brunch actions. To correct it:

* edit `\bower_components\inuit.css\.bower.json`,
* if missing, add the `"main": "_inuit.scss",` line as first line into the first curly braces.

##Install the required Node modules
This project uses **[Brunch](http://brunch.io)** and some of its sub-packages to function properly. To install them, go into the command line, and in the root of the project type:
```
npm install
```

This command will take the **[package.json](package.json)** file that lists all the modules required and download them with all their dependencies. The included packages are:

* **brunch**,
* **javascript-brunch**, to handle Javascript,
* **uglify-js-brunch** to uglify JS,
* **css-brunch** to handle CSS files,
* **sass-brunch** to handle Sass compilation,
* **sprite-brunch** to manage sprites,
* **auto-reload-brunch**, to automatically reload the page into the browser as Brunch compiles files.

###Add more Node modules
Feel free to install any other Node module that you think you need:
```
npm install [package-name] --save
```

The *--save* parameter will add the package to the *package.json* file in order to include it in the next global download.

##Set up your local server
When using your local http server, create a domain related to the project:

1. Create a virtual host by editing `apache/conf/extra/httpd-vhosts.conf`:
```apache_conf
<VirtualHost *:80>
     DocumentRoot "C:\wamp\www\the-project-directory\site-root-directory"
     ServerName project-name.local.f6.fr
</VirtualHost>
```
2. Ask your system to catch this domain by editing the `hosts` file (`c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\`):
```
    127.0.0.1 other-project.local.f6.fr
    127.0.0.1 project-name.local.f6.fr
```

##File tree
**Brunch** uses a default file tree as follows:

- app
	- assets
	- scripts
	- scss
- public
- vendor
	- scripts
	- styles

###/app
This directory is your working directory
####/app/assets
The content of this directory will simply be copied into the **/public** directory as-is. It can be seen as a mirror of the public directory. Everything you need to put into the public directory and that does not need to be treated by **Brunch** shall be put here.

If you need the find `/public/images/my-image.jpg`, you must have `/app/assets/images/my-image.jpg`. Even if you need to add a file into a directory that is treated by **Brunch** (like the CSS directory: if you need the find `/public/css/images/my-css-image.jpg`, you must have `/app/assets/css/images/my-css-image.jpg`.

So you will often find yourself with something like this:

- app
	- assets
		- css
			- fonts
			- images
		- images
		- includes-html
		- uploads
		- ...

####/app/scripts
This directory is intended to receive all your javascript files. Everything you put here will be compiled in one single **main.js** that will be copied in **/public/js/main.js**.

###/public
This directory is the effective website directory, **do not work here!**. Everything in this directory is generated by **Brunch** and thus can be overriden at any time.

###/vendor
This directory receives all the vendor files you wish to include in your code that are **NOT handled by Bower**. All javascripts files put in there will be compiled in one single **vendor.js** that will be copied in **/public/js/vendor.js**. Note that the vendor files handled by **Bower** will also be compiled in the same file but *before* the others.

##Work now!
To launch **Brunch**, type `brunch watch --server` in the command line. This will initiate Brunch and make it automatically update the styles and scripts, generate sprites (if available), reload the browser (if available)...

##Publication
`brunch build`.

`brunch build --production`.
